What is interlibrary loan?
Sometimes you might need materials that ASU Library does not own.  

You can use Interlibrary Loan (ILL) to request items from other libraries to support your learning, research, and teaching.

Interlibrary Loan is a free service available for current ASU students, faculty, and staff.

My Interlibrary Loan (ILLiad) account

Interlibrary Loan policy

Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law affiliates

Lending Information for other libraries

How to use interlibrary loan
Create an account
Log in to your Interlibrary Loan (ILLiad) account.

Fill out the required fields (About home delivery). Click Submit.

Request an item
From your ILLiad account:
Log in to your Interlibrary Loan (ILLiad) account. 

Select the item type (Article, Book, Video...) under New Request.

Enter the required information.  Fill out as many sections as possible.  Click Submit Request.

 

From One Search:
Search for a subject or item, then click the item title.

Click the Request link in the Get It section to see the request form.

Enter the required information.  Fill out as many sections as possible. Click Submit.

 

Receive and return items
Articles and other digital items:
Wait to receive a text or email notification. (Read more about library notices.) 

Log in to your ILLiad account.  Click View to see PDFs of your requested digital items.

Articles are automatically deleted from your ILLiad account after 60 days. Save the article to your computer if you need it longer.

 

Books and other physical items:
Wait to receive a text or email notification. (Read more about library notices.) 

Pick up physical items at the information desk of the ASU Library you selected in your request. 

Return your physical items to any ASU Library (except the Law Library) by the due date to avoid late fees. 

Please do not remove the book strap from your ILL material.

Please do not return ILL materials in any book drop or to the ASU Law Library.

About Home Delivery
Current ASU affiliates who reside outside of Maricopa County and within the continental United States, as well as Alaska and Hawaii, can request eligible Interlibrary Loan items to be shipped to their residence free of charge. ASU Library covers the cost of shipping, including the cost of return. When possible, packages are shipped FedEx 2 Day and a FedEx Ground return label is included in shipment.

An address verification email will be sent and must be responded to prior to any ILL materials being shipped.  ILL materials being returned should be shipped back at least a week prior to the due date. The recipient is responsible for lost or damaged materials.

Items not eligible for shipping include:

Materials with loan periods under 3 weeks or with In-Library Use only restrictions
Media (videos, CDs, etc.) and microforms
Requested ILL items with eligible due dates will be checked out and shipped to the mailing address provided. Due dates for ILL materials vary depending on the lending library.  All late fees will apply.  See fines and fees

 

ILLiad account setup for Home Delivery
Select  Update Profile under Profile:

Select Online-Extended or Outside Phoenix Metro Area for Campus Affiliation
Select Mail to Home Address for Pickup Location
Add your physical home mailing address
We are unable to ship to PO Boxes
We are unable to ship to business addresses
We are unable to ship to international addresses or to Puerto Rico
Click Submit Information