Publishing
two women seated adjacent to one another in comfy chairs, one with a laptop, having a conversation
We can work with you on your publication strategies and other dissemination needs, such as:

Navigating the publishing process

Evaluating publishing options

Negotiating publishing agreements

Copyright, author rights and guidance on licensing your work

Strategies for openly sharing and publishing your work.

Open access funding and support
While the majority of open access journals publish articles for free, many of the most well-known open access publishers do require that authors pay an Article Processing Charge (APC) to offset the cost of publication. The ASU Library supports ASU authors through our relationships with publishers, as well as consulting with authors to identify appropriate publication options that will expand the reach and impact of their work.

Open Access Publishing Discounts for ASU Authors
ASU Library is able to provide waivers or discounts on APCs with certain publishers as a result of the following partnerships and subscriptions:

Cambridge University Press Journals
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS)
ACS Journals- American Chemical Society Open Access publishing
PeerJ
MDPI
Visit the Scholarly Communication Library Guide for further details about publishing discounts.

The ASU Open Access Publication Fund
The ASU Open Access (OA) Publishing Fund supports ASU authors who wish to make their scholarly articles freely available immediately upon publication. This fund is co-sponsored by the Office of the Provost and Knowledge Enterprise and is managed by ASU Library. All current ASU faculty, staff and students are eligible for funds, with a maximum award of $2000 per request.

Applications to the fund are currently being accepted. Eligible applications will continue to be approved as long as funds are available.

Eligibility criteria
To be eligible for funding, the application must meet the following criteria:

Corresponding author: The applicant must be the corresponding author and a current ASU affiliate, for whom ASU is their home institution.
Manuscripts accepted within 365 days of an ASU student’s graduation or postdoctoral fellow’s separation from ASU are also eligible, provided that the work was submitted to the publisher when the former student or fellow was still affiliated with ASU.
One request per year: The author has not already received an award from the fund during the current fiscal year.
Journal and publication requirements
Journal quality: The journal must either be listed in the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) or be listed by Scimago as a first or second quartile (Q1 or Q2) journal in their field.
If you have questions about journal eligibility, please contact us.
How to apply
Submit an application after your article has been accepted for publication. You will need to provide information about the journal, the total article processing charge, how much you are requesting (up to a maximum of $2000) and attach the correspondence documenting the acceptance of your manuscript and identifying you as the corresponding author.

If your application is approved, we will request the publisher's invoice for the article processing charges and a receipt indicating payment of the invoice.

Open access publishing funds may only be distributed to authors through Workday as a reimbursement. We cannot pay publishers directly or do account transfers.


Please note: you will need to choose the SSO option to sign in using your ASURITE and password in order to proceed.

Remember, if making your work open access is important to you, you can always publish in a traditional journal as long as you retain the rights to self-archive your work in a repository, such as our KEEP institutional repository, or a disciplinary repository of choice.